# SmartIndiaHackathon

Our team Purva Singh, Alexei Beuno. H, Rashmi S, Shrimantha Satpati, Aaron and Merin were the Grand Finalists in the Smart India Hackathon 2022.

The problem statement:
"Transport and logistics services facilitate international trade and play an important role in the growth and development of the local economy. The quality and efficiency of logistics services can matter for international trade as a weak logistics infrastructure and operational processes can be a major obstacle to global trade integration. Transport and logistics is a sector in which global value chains (GVCs) play a vital role in connecting countries, spreading technology, and promoting best practice around the world. The transport and logistics GVC is notable for the variety of lead firms involved in it—including major shipping, express delivery, and freight forwarding firms—and the range of local operators they partner with. Increasingly, transport and logistics GVCs are extending their reach into developing countries. The fragmented market of freight transportation imposes several inefficiency costs as a result of delay, double-spending, disputes, and cancellations. While in such competitive market, every player seeks its own profit, optimisation at individual level also becomes harder due to invisibility and disconnectivity. Although tackling some of these issues are doable by synchronization, encryption and integration, it seems that other emerging technologies can also be applied for finding and developing a solution. Logistic companies face few major problems during delivery service. First of all, is dependence on a middleman, which connects messengers and clients, and process all the information for delivery manually, moreover increasing the price for delivery. Second, the utilization of Big Data. Many deliveries and logistics companies don’t use the data that they have, cannot set up new settings and offers for their users. Third, up to 30% of all products ordered online become returns, placing an insurmountable burden on reverse logistics. More purchasing through online creates more movement and strain on logistic companies.
